#summary Create plug-in project from source code
= Introduction =

This page lists out the instructions on how to create the Eclipse plug-in project using the source code in the [http://code.google.com/p/gdata-java-client-eclipse-plugin/source/browse/#svn project svn] for working on it. Just follow the 9 step procedure to start playing with it.

= Instructions =

Note: Following instructions are for Eclipse v3.3.2. For other versions, they may differ a bit or may be not.

*Step 1:* Checkout the project source as mentioned in the [http://code.google.com/p/gdata-java-client-eclipse-plugin/source/checkout source tab]. Let's say you checked the source out to $HOME/gdata-java-client-eclipse-plugin.

*Step 2:* Now, open Eclipse. Go to File --> New --> Project. You can see the following window. In that look out for 'Plug-in Project'. Select 'Plug-in Project' and click on 'Next' button. You can see the following window.

pic1

*Step 3:* In this window enter appropriate information. 
  
  * Project name: Let's say 'Google Data Plugin'.
  * Project settings: Make sure they look the same as in the picture below i.e. 'Create a Java Project' should be checked, the 'Source folder' should say 'src' and 'Output folder' can be named anything you like but 'bin' is more appropriate.
  * Target Platform: 'Eclipse version' should be checked and value should be '3.3' or above.

Now, hit 'Next'.

pic2

*Step 4:* You can see the window shown below. Let 'Plug-in Properties' be as it is since it will eventually get overwritten. For 'Plug-in Options' uncheck both the options. For 'Rich Client Application' check 'No' and hit 'Finish' button.

pic3

*Step 5:* Now, after the project is created, right-click on the project folder Google Data Plugin (if that's what you have named the project) in the 'Package Explorer' and click on 'Import' as shown below.

pic4

*Step 6:* On this page, expand the folder named 'General' and select 'File System' as shown below and then hit 'Next'.

pic5

*Step 7:* 

  * For the first directory field, hit on the 'Browse' button to browse upto $HOME/gdata-java-client-eclipse-plugin/, select folder named 'Google Data Plugin' and hit OK.
  * Now, check 'Google Data Plugin' as shown in the picture below.
  * Let's jump to options. In 'Options', check 'Overwrite exisitng resources without warning' and 'Create selected folders only'.
  * Hit 'Finish'.
 
pic6

*Step 8:* You may be asked if you want to open the 'Plug-in Perspective'. If so, hit 'Yes'.

*Step 9:* Now the plug-in project is created in Eclipse. To run it as a plug-in, right-click on the project folder in the 'Package Explorer' and go to Run As --> Eclipse Application. A new instance of Eclipse will be opened and you can test the plug-in there.

Now, you are ready to work on the plug-in your way. Good luck!